## nonogram_solver
A program to solve the Japanese puzzles called nonograms. In the rows and columns of a 2D matrix, clues are listed and provides information about how many, how long, and of which color the colorized adjacent blocks should have in that row or column. See nonograms.org for examples of the puzzle. 

## Compiling

This project depends on the SDL2 graphics library. In Ubuntu it can be installed by `apt-get install libsdl1.2-dev libsdl-image1.2-dev libsdl-mixer1.2-dev libsdl-ttf2.0-dev`

The code is developed in Linux Mint in the Code::Blocks IDE, but a makefile is available if you want to compile the sources without having to install Code::Blocks.

The makefile is generated by `cbp2make -in nonogram.cbp`. cbp2make can be installed with `sudo apt install cbp2make`. The project can then be compiled with `make -f nonogram.cbp.mak` or just `make`, and the binary will be named "runme" and will be located in the root project folder.

## Usage

The clues are initialized with length and color in the main.cpp file. Pointers to them are also manually put in the rows and columns named row0, row1... and column0, column1... The rows and columns are pointed to from the array of pointers called allRows and allColumns, make sure to include the rows there. 

When editing the clues, rows, and columns, make sure that the number of rows and number of columns are correct by setting the constant integers nrColumns and nrRows at the top of the myFunctions.cpp file. 

## Current state
At the current state, the program is able to solve a very small nonogram. Some of the logic is done but there are still some implementations left for the program to be able to solve the larger nonograms.

What is possible now is to fill a row which has to be completely full. 

## Contributors

What is at the top of the TODO-list is to let the clues deduce when one of its pieces was colorized by means of another clue. That is not useful in the smallest case, and the program does well without this functionality on a 2x3 grid, but it is a must for solving larger nonograms.
